[WAKIZURE] Somo somo kore wa,
([WAKIZURE] To begin with,)
Ichijō-no-In ni tsukae tatematsuru.
(I am in the service of the Emperor Ichijo.)
Tachibana-no-Michinari to wa waga koto nari.
(I am known as Tachibana no Michinari.)
Sate mo mikado kon'ya kidoku no go reimu, mashimashite.
(It is so happens that his Lordship)
Sanjō-no-Kokaji Munechika ni.
(has had a portentous dream oracle.)
Mi-tsurugi wo utaserarubeki to no
(The Sanjo swordsmith Munechika)
senji tadaima narikudarite sōrō hodo ni.
(must be ordered to forge a blade.)
Kono yoshi wo Munechika ni mōshi-tsukebaya to
(I am on my way now to tell Munechika)
zonji sōrō.
(of this matter.)
[WAKIZURE] Ika ni kono uchi ni Munechika no, watari sōrō ka.
([WAKIZURE] Is Munechika at home ?)
[WAKI] Tare nite watari, sōrōzo.
([WAKI] Who is it that has come here ?)
[WAKIZURE] Kore wa senji nite sōrō.
([WAKIZURE] I am a messenger from the Emperor.)
Waga kimi Kon'ya fushimi no reimu, mashimashite.
(His Majesty has had a marvelous oracle in a dream.)
Mitsurugi wo utaserarubeki tono onkoto nari.
(According to the oracle, you must forge a fine sword for him.)
Tōtō tsukamatsuri sōrae.
(Please comply with this order at once.)
[WAKI] Senji kashikomatte uketamawari sōrō sarinagara.
([WAKI] While I certainly must agree to execute this imperial order, )
Orifushi aizuchi utsubeki mono no naku sōrō wo ba,
(as I do not have anyone to assist me,)
nani to tsukamatsuri sōrō beki.
(I do not know how I will be able to carry it out.)
[WAKIZURE] Fushigi no koto wo mōsu mono kana.
([WAKIZURE] What you say sir, seems most strange.)
Sono na wo etaru, nanji naruga
(To hear that someone of your reputation)
aizuchi utsubeki mono no naki towa.
(does not have an appropriate assistant,)
Kokoroegataki iigotokana.
(is the most unfortunate news.)
[WAKI] Kore wa ōse nite sōrae domo,
([WAKI] Even though I am commanded to do so,)
Kayō no ichidaiji no mono wo tsukamatsuru ni wa
(without an assistant whose skills are equal to my own,)
ware ni otonaru koto no mono no aizuchi, tsukamatsurite koso.
(it will not be possible to fulfill this order)
Mitsurugi wo mo uchimōsubekere.
(to forge an imperial blade.)
Tonikaku ni onpenji wo mōshikane.
(This is the answer I must give,)
Sekimenshitaru bakari nari.
(though I am overcome with embarassment.)
[WAKIZURE] Mōsu tokoro wa saru koto naredomo.
([WAKIZURE] Even though it may be as you say,)
Mikado mo fushigi no reimu mashimaseba.
(yet as this is the Emperor's wonderful dream oracle,)
Ikanaru koto ka sōrōbeki
(it surely must be relied upon)
tanomoshiku omoi mōshitsutsu
(and you must quickly say)
hayahaya ryōjō mōisubeshito
(you will accept the order.)
Kasanete senji arikereba.
(Let me repeat the imperial command!)
[WAKI] Kono ue wa tonimo kakunimo Munechika ga,
([WAKI] At this point, in any case, Munechika)
[JIUTAI] Tonimo kakunimo Munechika ga,
([JIUTAI] In any case, Munechika)
Shintai koko ni kiwamarite.
(must here decide his course of action.)
Mitsurugi no yaiba no midaruru kokoro narikeri.
(Like the ripples beaten along a well-forged blade, his heart wavers.)
Sarinagara goseitō sugunaru ima no miyo nareba,
(Yet, as the reign in the present age is righteous,)
Moshimo kidoku no ariyasen.
(a miracle may well be afforded me.)
Sore nomi tanomu kokoro kana.
(I must place my trust only in this.)
[WAKIZURE] Senji ni makase tōtō mitsurugi wo tsukamatsuri sōrae.
([WAKIZURE] Hurry! make the sword.)
[WAKI] Kashikomatte sōrō.
([WAKI] Yes! sir.)
[WAKI] Kore wa ichidaiji no koto wo, ōse idasarate sōrō monokana.
([WAKI] This is a great task you have come to give me.)
Kayō no koto ni wa shinriki wo tanomu naradewa, bechigi naku sōrō.
(Such a command can be carried out if I ask for divine help.)
Soregashi ga uji no shin na Inari no, myōjin nite sōrō hodoni.
(As my family deity is Inari no Myojin,)
Kore yori sugu ni, Inari ni mairi.
(I will go at once to Inari,)
Kono koto kisei mōsabaya to zonji-sōrō.
(and pray concerning this matter.)
[SHITE] Nō nō are naru wa Sanjō no Kokaji Munechika nite, on iri sōrō ka.
([SHITE] Ho there! Is that the Swordsmith of Sanjō, Munechika ?)
[WAKI] Fushigi ya na nabete narazaru on-koto naru ga.
([WAKI] How mysterious! Here is someone who is certainly not an ordinary person.)
Michi mo naki kata yori kitaritamai
(There is no path from the direction from which he has appeared,)
waga na wo sashite notamō wa.
(and now he has called me by name.)
Ikanaru hito nite mashi-masu zo.
(What manner of man are you ?)
[SHITE] Kumo no ue naru kimi yori mo
([SHITE] You have been ordered)
tsurugi wo uchite mairaseyo to
(by his Imperial Majesty)
nanji ni ōse ari shi yo nō.
(to forge a sword!)
[WAKI] Sareba koso,
([WAKI] As I thought, you are not what you seem to be,)
sore ni tsukete mo nao nao kidoku no on-koto nare.
(and events must be of great importance indeed.)
Tsurugi no choku mo tadaima naru wo.
(I have just received the order to make a blade!)
Hayaku mo shiroshimesaruru koto
(How could it be that anyone could know so soon ?)
Kaesu-gaesu mo fushin nari.
(No matter how I consider it, the matter is most strange.)
[SHITE] Geni geni sore wa saru koto naredomo
([SHITE] In truth, it is as you say. It is said: To know a thing one's self,)
ware nomi shireba moro bito made mo.
(it is to find it is known by all.)
[WAKI] Ten ni koe ari.
([WAKI] A voice in heaven,)
[SHITE] Chi ni hibiku.
([SHITE] echoes on the earth!)
[JIUTAI] Kabe ni mimi:
([JIUTAI] Wall have ears:)
Iwa no mono iu yo no naka ni,
(In the world where rocks may speak,)
Kakure wa araji koto ni nao,
(and nothing is hidden,)
kumo no uebito no mitsurugi no
(nothing shall dim the radiance)
hikari wa nanika kurakaran.
(of the Emperor's sword.)
Tada tonome kono kimi no
(Only have faith)
Meguni ni yoraba mitsurugi mo
(that through his Majesty's grace and the sword)
nado ka kokoro ni kanawazaru.
(will be realized as you wish.)
Nado ka wa kanawazarubeki.
(It must be realized.)
[JIUTAI] Sore Kan-nō sanseki no tsurugi
([JIUTAI] Once with such a blade, the Emperor's Three Foot Sword,)
inagara Shii no midare wo shizume.
(subdued the rebellion of the Ts'in by its reputation alone.)
Mata Yō-tei ga Gei no tsurugi
(Again, the Yang Emperor, with his sword Kei )
Shiujt'n no hikari wo ubaeri.
(outshone the brillance of the House of Chou.)
[SHITE] Sono nochi Gensō Kō-tei no Shōki Daijin mo
([SHITE] In later years, the Emperor Huan Tsung's Minister Chung K'ei too,)
[JIUTAI] Tsurugi no toku ni konpaku wa,
([JIUTAI] joined his spirit after death with the virtue of his sword,)
kunpen ni tsukae-tatematsuri.
(and thus served at his Lord's side.)
Mōryō kijin ni itaru made
(Even evil spirits and demons)
tsurugi no yaiba no yaiba no hikari ni osorete,
(were in fear of that sword's glow,)
sono ada wo nasu koto wo ezu.
(and the destruction they sought was not achieved.)
[SHITE] Kanka honchō ni oite tsurugi no itoku
([SHITE] Indeed, the virtue of the swords in China and Japan)
[JIUTAI] mōsu ni oyobanu kidoku to kaya.
([JIUTAI] and their miraculous power is beyond expression!)
[JIUTAI] Mata waga chō no sono hajime
([JIUTAI] And so, it was in the early days of our history,)
Ninnō jiunidai Keikō-tennō
(the Twelfth of the Imperial Line, the Emperor Keikō,)
miko no mikato no on-na wo ba
(had a son known by the name)
Yamata-dake to mōshishiga.
(Yamato-dake.)
Kiui wo Taiji no chiku wo uke.
(The wild barbarians! he received the order to subdue them.)
Seki no higashi mo harukanaru.
(The barrier check points far behind as yet further to the East.)
Azuma no tabi no michi sugara
(The road of his journey to the Eastern provinces took him.)
Ise ya Owari no umizura ni tatsu nami made mo
(Even at Ise and Owari the waves on the sea rise and return!)
kaeru koto yo to urayami
(With envy he wondered always, )
itsu ka warera mo kaeru nami no
(when he too might find himslef, with foam-drenched sleeves)
koromode ni arama shi to omoi-tsuzukete-yuku hodo ni.
(returning home, even as he continued on his way.)
[SHITE] Koko ya kashiko no tatakai ni
([SHITE] In the battles in one place and in the next )
[JIUTAI] Jin-ba gankutsu ni mi wo kudaki,
([JIUTAI] Men and horses: their bodies crushed in their caverns,)
Chi wa takuroku no kawa to natte,
(their blood on the battlefields a river,)
kōha tate nagashi sudo ni oyoberu Ebisu mo.
(their shields swept away on crimson waves again and again.)
kabuto wo nuide hoko wo fuse
(Finally the barbarians removed their helmets,)
mina kōsan wo mōshikeri.
(lay down their arms and were made to surrender.)
Mi-koto no gyō yori mi-kariba wo susume tamaeri.
(From the time of this Prince's reign, the royal sport of hunting was begun.)
Koro wa Kami-na-zuki,
(It was an incident that occurred, )
hatsu ka amari no koto nareba.
(on the twentieth day of the Tenth month:)
Yo-mo no momiji mo fuyugare no
(Everywhere the autumn tints had faded,)
tō-yama ni miyuru hatsu-yuki wo,
(and even on the distant winter withered mountains,)
nagame sase tamaishi ni,
(the traces of the first snow fall could be seen.)
[SHITE] Yebisu shi-hō wo kakomitsutsu.
([SHITE] The barbarians surrounding him on every side)
[JIUTAI] Kare-no no kusa ni hi wo kake
([JIUTAI] Set fire to the grass of the withered fields, and as the blaze burned high)
yo-en shikiri ni moe-kitari
(and as the blaze burned high with heavy lingering billows of smoke.)
kataki-seme-tsuzumi wo uchi-kakete
(Began to beat their war drums in the signal to attack.)
ka-en wo hanachite kakarikareba.
(The Towering flames! as the attack blazed forward)
[SHITE] Mi-koto tsurugi wo nuite...
([SHITE] The Prince drew his sword)
[JIUTAI] Mi-koto tsurugi wo nuite,
([JIUTAI] The Prince drawing his sword,)
atari wo harai tachimachi.
(wielded it about him.)
ni honō mo tachi-shirizoke to,
(At once, the flames drew back,)
shi-hō no kusa wo nagi-haraeba.
(as it mowed down the grasses in all directions.)
Tsurugi no seirei arashi to natte,
(The spirit of the sword became a storm)
hon wo mo kusa mo fuki-kaesarete.
(blasting back the raging flames and grasses too.)
Ten ni kakayaki chi ni michite.
(The blaze lit up the heavens, covered the earth!)
Myō-ka wa kaette kataki wo yakeba.
(A furnace of fierce flames turned back to devour the enemy forces.)
Su man gi no Yebisu-domo wa,
(Thus, the countless barbarians,)
tachimachi koko nite usetengeri.
(and cavalrymen were brought down.)
Sono nochi shi-kai osamarite,
(So in later years the Empire was at peace:)
Jin-ka to-zashi wo wasureshi mo.
(So much so that the people forgot to bar the doors of their houses.)
Sono Kusanagi no yue to ka ya.
(This is because of the 'Grass-cutter', it was said.)
Tadaima nanji ga utsubeki
(And now, this auspicious omened blade)
kono zuisō no mitsurugi mo.
(that you must forge!)
Ika de sore ni wa otorubeki.
(Is there any reason it should be a lesser blade than that ?)
Tsutōru ie no Munechika yo,
(Munechika, heir to a house of proud tradition,)
kokoro yasuku mo omoite ge-kō shi tamae.
(set your heart at rest and go home now.)
[WAKI] Kanka honchō ni oite tsurugi no itoku
([WAKI] What you have told me of the power of the swords in China and Japan)
Toki ni totte no shiugen mōsu, hakari no kusōrō.
(has gladdened my heart at this important hour.)
Sate satemo onmi wa ikanaru hito zo.
(Yet, I press you again to tell me who you are ?)
[SHITE] Yoshi tare nari tomo tanomubeshi.
([SHITE] Who I may be is of no consequence, but you must pray!)
Mazumazu choku no mitsurugi wo
(Before anything else adorn your forge mound)
utsu beki dan no kazaritsutsu.
(where you will temper the Imperial blade.)
Sono toki ware wo machitamawaba.
(And at that time, if you will but wait for me.)
[JIUTAI] Tsūriki no mi wo henji.
([JIUTAI] I will change into supernatural form.)
Tsūriki no mi wo henjite,
(Having changed into a supernatural form,)
kanarazu sono jiset'n ni
(I will come without fail, at the appointed time,)
mairi aite onchikara wo tsuke-mōsubeshi.
(and join you, adding my strength to yours.)
Machitamae to.
(Then wait for me!)
Iugumo no Inariyama,
(So saying, into the evening clouds of Mt. Inari)
yukue mo shirazu usenikeri.
(without a sign of where he went, he vanished,)
Yukue mo shirazu usenikeri.
(Without a sign of where he went, he vanished.)
[KYŌGEN] Kayō ni sorō mono wa Inari daimyōjin ni
([KYŌGEN] I am the god of a subsidiary shrine )
tsukaemōsu massha no shin nite sōro.
(and in the service of Inari-daimyōjin.)
Tadaima kore e izuru koto, yonogi ni arazu.
(I have come here before you now on a matter of no small importance.)
Satemo, ninnō rokujūrokudai Ichijō no in,
(Now then, it seems that the Emperor Ichijo, sixty-sixth of the imperial line,)
Kono hodo, fushigi no ontsuge mashimashite,
(has recently had a portentous dream oracle.)
Sanjō no Kokaji Munechika ni,
(According to it, the Sanjo swordsmith Munechika,)
mitsurugi wo utaserarubeki to no on koto nari.
(must be ordered to forge a blade.)
Sunawachi Michinari nokyō, chokushi to natte,
(At that time Minister Michinari was the imperial envoy)
senji no omomuki, ōserare kereba,
(who gave him the details of the imperial message.)
Munechika, senji uketamawari
(Munechika hearing the message, agreed to comply with the order,)
kahodo daiji no mitsurugi wo, uchimōsu ni wa,
(though to forge such an important blade,)
soregashi ichinin nite wa hakaraigatashi.
(he said, was something he could not do by himself)
Ware ni otoranu aizuchi nakute wa kanawaji tote,
("As it will be impossible without an assistant of skill equal to my own,)
mazu wa gojitai nasaresōrō ga ringen nase no gotoshi,
(I should certainly refuse this order, but as this is a request from the Emperor himself,)
katsu wa ie no menboku to zonji, ouke wo mōsoresōro.
(I know it would bring great shame to my house to decline and so I will accept it," he said.)
Sarinagara, kono tabi no mitsurugi wo uchimōsuni wa
(And so, as it would not be possible for him to forge the sword by himslef on this occasion,)
soregashi ichinin nite wa hakaraigatashi,
(in order to do it he decided he must call on divine power,)
shinriki ō tanomōzuru-tote,
(in other words, on Inari Daimyojin, his family's tutelary god.)
sunawachi, Inari daimyojin na ujishin nari
(If indeed a deity could watch over his forge,)
Koto sara, kaji o mamori tamao ongami nareba,
(he decided he must go at once and pray concerning the matter.)
tadaima sankei tsukamatsuri sōro. Tokoro ni,
(As he did this so humbly, the god of the Inari shrine knew of it and, )
katajikenakumo tōsha myojin gozonji atte
(taking the form of a youth, appeared and met )
kari ni dōji no sugata to Genji Munechika ni uchiai,
(with Munechika, and spoke to him.)
on-kotoba wo kawasaresōro.
(Commonly, in our land there have been,)
Sōjite, wagakyō ni oite,
(from the Age of the Gods, two sacred swords.)
kamiyo yori tsutōru reiken, futatsu ari.
(The one called "Totsuka no Tsurugi", the Ten-span Sword)
Totsuka no Tsurugi to mōsu wa, Susanō-no-mikoto,
(was used by Susanō-no-mikoto, when learning of the great serpent)
Izumo no kuni, Hi no Kawakami ni, daijya no arishi wo,
(at the headwaters of the Hi River in the country of Izumo,)
tsukamaetamaishimo, kono tsurugi no itoku nari.
(he destroyed it, due to the virtue of this sword.)
Matta, Murakumo no Tsurugi to mōsu wa,
(Then again, the sword called "Murakumo no Tsurugi" the Gathering Clouds Sword,)
sono toki daijya no ō ni arishi tsurugi nari.
(was the sword he found at that time in the tail of the great serpent.)
Matta, ninō junidai Keikō tenno, daini no miko
(Then again, Yamatodake-no-mikoto the second son of Emperor Keikō,)
Yamatodake-no-mikoto tōi wo tairagetamaishi wo,
(the twelfth of the imperial line, subdued the people of the eastern lands,)
sono tsurugi no itoku nari.
(this also due to the virtue of that sword.)
Sore yori aratame, Kusanagi-no-tsurugi to wa, kore ō mōsu nari.
(From that time, it was renamed and known as 'Kusanagi-no-Tsurugi" the Grass Cutting Sword.)
Sono hoka, Kan no kōsō sanseki no ken,
(In addition to these, there are the Han Emperor's Three Foot Sword,)
Kan shō bakuga no tsurugi, morokoshi wagakyō ni oite
(the Gan JIang and Mo Ye swords. He told him many stories)
tsurugi no itoku, kotogotoku onmonogatari nasare.
(of the virtue of swords, both in China and in our own country.)
Nanji mo, na wo ehtaru kaji nareba, izure ni ototoru
("You, too, if you are a swordsmith of repute, will be able to forge a blade of equal merit.)
Mitsurugi wo uchimōsu nari. Kane wo kitōte matsubeshi.
(Prepare, temper the metal, and wait.")
Sono toki myojin raigenatte,
(At that time, Myojin will appear and be your assistant)
aizuchi wo utaserarubeki to no onkoto nareba,
(in forging the blade. This being the case,)
Munechika mo, yorokobi no mayu wo hiraki,
(Munechika, his eyebrows relaxed in joy,)
tadaima, gekō tsukamatsurite sōrō.
(is even now coming this way to do these things.)
Sōjite nanigoto mo kisei wo kakemōseba,
(In this way then, whe prayers are offered)
shōganjōju utagai nashi.
(they shall be fulfilled, without a doubt.)
Kamaete sono bun, kokoroe-sōrae.
(On this matter, rest assured,)
kokoroe-sōrae.
(rest assured.)
[WAKI] Munechika choku ni shitagatte
([WAKI] Now, I, Munichika, in compliance with the Imperial Will)
sunawachi dan ni agari
(have accordingly ascended the dais to ward off impurities.)
fujō wo hedatsuru nanae no shime
(It is adorned with the Seven-fold Sacred Rope,)
shi-hō ni honzon no kake tatematsuri
(and in the four corners sacred images place in reverence.)
heihaku wo sasage,  ōgi negawakuwa
(I raise up this Sacred wand and make my petition.)
Nin-nō rokuju-roku dai,
(Now, in the reign of the Sixty-sixth Emperor Ichijo,)
Ichijo-no-In no gyo-o ni
(I have been honored greatly in my craft,)
sono shoku no homare wo kō-muru koto
(through no effort of my own, )
kore watakushi no chikara ni arazu.
(rather, I have held in trust those skills.)
Izanagi Izanami no Mikoto
(When Izanagi and Izanami crossed over)
Amano-Ukihashi wo fumi-watari
(the Floating Bridge of Heaven,)
Toyo-ashi-wara wo saguri tamaishi
(and probed the Abundant Reed Plain)
mi-hoko yori hajimareri.
(with the Sacred Spear was their beginning.)
Sono nochi Nansen-Sōkada koku Bashi
(Later, from holy Hashimida of Eastern India)
Mida Sonja yori kono kata
(the descendants of Amakuni and Fujito)
Amakuni Fujito no shison ni tsutaete
(learned arts)
ima ni itareri.
(which I am now the master of.)
[WAKI] Negawaku wa,
([WAKI] Now, I pray!)
[JIUTAI] Negawaku wa,
([JIUTAI] Now I petition: It is not for the glory of my name: Munechika, )
Munechika watakushi no kōmyō ni arazu,
(but at the imperial command of the Emperor,)
futensotto no chokumei ni yoreri,
(whose rule extends from heaven to earth, that I call on all divine beings, )
sāraba jippō gōja no shojin,
(numberless as the sand of the Ganges,)
tadaima no Munechika ni chikara wo awasete tabitamae tote.
(to join your strength now with Munechika.)
Heihaku wo sasagetsutsu.
(I offer up this sacred wand.)
Ten ni aogi kōbe ō katamuke kot'nzui no tansei kiki-ire.
(I bow my head before heaven as I seek divine aid from my inmost being.)
Nōjiu seshime tamaeya.
(Hear and grant my prayer)
[WAKI] Kinjyo:
([WAKI] With profound reverence:)
[JIUTAI] Saihai
([JIUTAI] My supplication!)
[JIUTAI] Ika ni ya Munechika choku no tsurugi.
([JIUTAI] Now, Munechika -- the Imperial Blade!)
Ika ni ya Munechika choku no tsurugi,
(Now, Munechika -- the Imperial Blade!)
utsubeki jisetsu wa kōku ni shireri.
(The appointed time for forging is known!)
Tanome ya, tanome ya, tada tanome.
(Trust and have faith!  Only trust!)
[SHITE] Tōnan dan no ue ni agari.
([SHITE] A young boy ascends the forge mound!)
[JIUTAI] Tōnan dan no ue ni agatte,
([JIUTAI] A young boy ascends the forge mound,)
Munechika ni sanpai no hiza wo tasshi.
(kneels and bows three times before Munechika.)
Sate mitsurugi no kane wa to ieba
("Now then, the metal for the blade?" he says)
Munechika mo kyōet'n no kokoro wo saki toshite
(and Munechika, his heart joyful, in reply)
Kane tori-idashi.
(brings for the metal.)
Oshie no tsuchi wo hattate uteba.
(As he strikes the first blow with his mallet,)
[SHITE] Chō to utsu
([SHITE] Clang! we strike!)
[JIUTAI] Chō
([JIUTAI] Clang!)
[SHITE] Chō to
([SHITE] Clang, again.)
[JIUTAI] Uchi kasanetaru tsuchi no hibiki
([JIUTAI] The blows coming, one on another, the sound of their mallets)
Tenchi ni kikoete obitatashiya.
(echoes throughout heaven and earth - How it resounds!)
[WAKI] Kakute mitsurugi wo uchitatematsuri.
([WAKI] And so the Imperial Blade is forged:)
Omote ni Kokaji Munechika to utsu
(On the face of it I strike: "Munechika, Swordsmith"!)
[SHITE] Shintai toki no deshi nareba.
([SHITE] As your timely apprentice the god:)
Kogitsune to ura ni azayakani.
("Little Fox", I skillfully strike on the reverse.)
[JIUTAI] Uchi-tatemōsu mitsurugi no
([JIUTAI] Along the edge of the blade are beaten traces)
yaiba wa kumo wo midashitareba
(like wild clustering clouds.)
Ama-no-mura-kumo tomo kore nare ya.
("Clustering Clouds of Heaven", it will be!)
[SHITE] Ten-ga dai-ichi no.
([SHITE] First under Heaven:)
[JIUTAI] Ten-ga dai-ichi no,
([JIUTAI] First under Heaven:)
futatsu no mei no mitsurugi nite.
(The sword with two inscriptions!)
shi-kai wo osame tamaeba,
(It will rule the land to the four seas,)
go-koku jōju mo kono toki nare ya.
(celebrate the abundance of the five staple crops.)
Sunawachi nanji ga uji no shin
("I, before you, as the deity of your clan:)
Inari no shintai Kogitsune-maru wo,
(the manifestation of Inari: the Little Fox,)
chokushi ni sasage-mōshi.
(come to aid you in fulfilling your task.)
Kore made nari to ii-sutete,
(Now, I am done!" So saying, takes his leave.)
Mata mura-kumo ni tobi-nori,
(Once more he leaps upon the mass of clouds,)
mata mura-kumo ni tobi-norite,
(Again, more he leaps upon the mass of clouds,)
Higashiyama Inari no mine ni zo kaerikeru.
(and return to Higashiyama, the eastern mountains, the peak of Mt. Inari!)